DOCSP-41980: Cursor guide (#110)
mongodb/docs-php-library: source/read/cursor.txt

.. _php-cursors:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: read, results, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the
{+php-library+}.

A cursor is a mechanism that returns the results of a read operation in iterable

> batches. Cursors reduce both memory consumption and network bandwidth usage by holding
> only a subset of documents at any given time rather than returning all documents at
> once.

Reviewer: A piece of feedback I got from the Java DBX team on a Kotlin Sync version of this page I had put up for PR:

> Cursors are not really concerned with bandwidth, they reduce the number of requests while being mindful of the memory consumption

The suggestion below might be a bit long so feel free to workshop.

```suggestion
batches. Cursors reduce both memory consumption and the number of requests the driver
sends to the server by holding only a subset of documents at any given time, rather than returning all documents at once.
```

Whenever the {+php-library+} performs a read operation by using the ``MongoDB\Collection::find()``
method, it returns the matching documents in a ``MongoDB\Driver\Cursor`` instance.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection in the ``sample_restaurants``
database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To access this collection
from your PHP application, instantiate a ``MongoDB\Client`` that connects to an Atlas cluster
and assign the following value to your ``collection`` variable:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read/cursor.php
   :language: php
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-db-coll
   :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

.. _php-cursors-iterate:

Access Cursor Contents Iteratively
----------------------------------

To iterate over the contents of a ``MongoDB\Driver\Cursor`` instance, use a ``foreach`` loop.

The following example uses the ``MongoDB\Collection::find()`` method to retrieve all documents

> in which the ``name`` value is ``'Dunkin' Donuts'``. It then prints each document from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in which the ``name`` field value is ``'Dunkin' Donuts'``. It then prints each document from the
```
